#summary Featurelist for Dungeoneer
#labels Phase-Requirements,Phase-Design

= Introduction =

This page is intended to be a dumping ground for all the features Dungeoneer will eventually have in it. By creating this page, I will hopefully be able to get some kind of handle on how I want the development of the game to continue.


= Details =
== The Dungeon ==
The dungeon is a randomly generated maze of rooms.  A room is a location containing items, monsters, and/or the player's party (or nothing), and has exits in the cardinal compass directions to other rooms. One room in the maze has a portal to another room in it.

=== Maze Generation ===
The dungeon maze is currently being generated using the DFS Algorithm. Doing this takes only the number of rooms in the maze, in the form of a rowcount and a columncount.  However, I would like to experiment with a hybrid Prim-DFS chunk-style maze generation. In this algorithm, the dungeon would be divided into an array of chunks, say, 3 rows of chunks by 3 columns of chunks.  The chunks themselves would be a set size, say 3 rows of rooms by 3 columns per chunk.  Each chunk would be generated independently by the Prim algorithm, however, the chunks would be linked together by a chunk map generated using the DFS algorithm.  I haven't actually tried programming this yet but I'm interested in seeing what kind of mazes it can generate.

== Scaling ==
I'd like for this game to scale in many different ways.  I would essentially like for there to be no upper limit on the game, except perhaps integer size.  There would be no level cap, or even a party size cap.  Monsters would also have levels and scale with the party.  To this end, the game could essentially contnue forever.  That's fine, as this is primarily considered to be more of a coffee-break style game than an actual "play until you win" style game.

== Party Formation ==
The player will be able to create characters to put in his adventuring party.  The adventuring party must consist of at least one character, but there is no upper bound.  The party will be arranged in rows.  Current plans are to have 3 rows, although this number might change.  But, the number of columns is limited by the number of people in the front row.  So, if there is only one person in the front row, there can only be one person in the middle row, and one person in the back row.  The player is free to add as many front-row characters as he wants, but to add more middle and back row characters, more front row characters must be added.

=== Rows ===
Front row characters will be hit by melee attacks.  Middle row characters can be hit by ranged attacks, and can launch ranged attacks.  Back row characters can only be hit by spells, and can also launch ranged attacks.  Spells may be cast from any row, but any character hit while casting a spell will have the spell casting time increased.  If any row of characters is completely defeated, the rest of the characters will be "promoted" one row.

=== Character Storage ===
There will also be a guild or house to store characters.  In this way, the player can put up characters that he doesn't want to use for the time being, or bring them out later.  There is no limit on the number of stored characters.  The house should probably have some searching functionality to help find particular characters.

== Level Progression ==

=== Classes ===

== Skills ==

=== Skill Points ===

== Quests ==

== Local Telnet Access ==

== Combat ==
=== Skill Recovery & Spell Casting Time ===
=== Cooldown ===